perftest: readd v8.5.0 lts perftest result(back to original templete) (#19727)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/v8.5-performance-highlights.md

---
title: TiDB Cloud Performance Highlights for TiDB v8.5.0
summary: Introduce the performance improvements for TiDB Cloud Dedicated clusters with the TiDB version of v8.5.0.
---

# TiDB Cloud Performance Highlights for TiDB v8.5.0

[TiDB v8.5.0](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/release-8.5.0) is an important Long-Term Support (LTS) release, which delivers notable improvements in performance, scalability, and operational efficiency.

This document outlines the performance improvements in v8.5.0 across the following areas:

- General performance
- Hotspot reads with excessive MVCC versions
- IO latency jitter
- Batch processing
- TiKV scaling performance

## General performance

> With the default Region size increased from 96 MiB to 256 MiB and some other improvements in v8.5, significant performance improvements were observed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the default Region size increased from 96 MiB to 256 MiB and some other improvements in v8.5, significant performance improvements are observed:
```

The accumulation of MVCC versions creates a large gap between the requested data and the processed data, leading to degraded read performance.

### Solution

To address this issue, TiKV introduces [In-Memory Engine (IME)](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tikv-in-memory-engine). By caching the latest versions in memory, TiKV reduces the impact of historical versions on read performance, significantly improving query efficiency.

### Test environment

- Cluster topology: TiDB (16 vCPU, 32 GiB) \* 1 + TiKV (16 vCPU, 32 GiB) \* 6
- Cluster configurations:

    ```
    tikv_configs:
    [in-memory-engine]
    enable = true
    ```

- Dataset: 24 GiB storage size with about 340 Regions, containing frequently updated data
- Workload: rows requiring scans contain numerous MVCC versions introduced by frequent updates

### Test results

The query latency decreases by 50%, and the throughput increases by 100%.

> | Configurations | Duration | Threads | TPS | QPS | Average latency | P95 latency |
> | --- |  --- |  --- |  --- |  --- |  --- |  --- |
> | Disable IME | 3600 s | 10 | 123.8 | 1498.3 | 80.76 | 207.82 |
> | Enable IME | 3600 s | 10 | 238.2 | 2881.5 | 41.99 | 78.60 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Configuration | Duration (s) | Threads | TPS | QPS | Average latency (ms) | P95 latency (ms) |
| --- |  --- |  --- |  --- |  --- |  --- |  --- |
| Disable IME | 3600 | 10 | 123.8 | 1498.3 | 80.76 | 207.82 |
| Enable IME | 3600 | 10 | 238.2 | 2881.5 | 41.99 | 78.60 |
```

## IO latency jitter

### Challenge

In cloud environments, transient or sustained IO latency fluctuations on cloud disks are a common challenge. These fluctuations can increase request latency, causing timeouts, errors, and disruptions to normal business operations, ultimately degrading service quality.

### Solution

> TiDB v8.5 introduces multiple enhancements to address the impact of cloud disk IO jitter on performance. These improvements effectively mitigate the effects of IO latency fluctuations, ensuring more stable and reliable performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB v8.5.0 introduces multiple enhancements to address the impact of cloud disk IO jitter on performance. These improvements effectively mitigate the effects of IO latency fluctuations, ensuring more stable and reliable performance.
```

### Test environment

- Cluster topology: TiDB (32 vCPU, 64 GiB) \* 3 + TiKV (32 vCPU, 64 GiB) \* 6

> - Workload: a read/write ratio of 2:1, with simulated cloud disk IO delays or hangs on one of TiKV nodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Workload: a read/write ratio of 2:1, with simulated cloud disk IO delays or hangs on one TiKV node
```

### Test results

> The failover time of the IO latency jitter is 30% shorter, and P99/999 latency is reduced by 70% or higher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The failover time of the IO latency jitter is 30% shorter, and P99/999 latency is reduced by 70% or more.
```

    | IO delay 2 ms lasts for 10 mins | Almost no effect | 1% | 14 ms | 7.9 ms |

- Test results with IO latency jitter improvement

    | Workload | Failover time | QPS drop rate | Maximum latency (P999) | Maximum latency (P99) |
    | --- |  --- |  --- |  --- |  --- |
    | IO delay 1 s lasts for 10 mins | 3 mins | 93% | 4.66 s | 929 ms |
    | IO delay 500 ms lasts for 10 mins | 2 mins | 92% | 7.22 s | 894 ms |
    | IO delay 100 ms lasts for 10 mins | 3 mins | 80% | 7.53 s | 1.7 s |
    | IO delay 50 ms lasts for 10 mins | 3 mins | 53% | 1.36 s | 238 ms |
    | IO delay 10 ms lasts for 10 mins | 3 mins | 18% | 69 ms | 25 ms |
    | IO delay 5 ms lasts for 10 mins | 2 mins | 29% | 37.9 ms | 10 ms |
    | IO delay 2 ms lasts for 10 mins | Almost no effect | 1% | 14 ms | 7.9 ms |

## Batch processing

### Challenge

Large-scale transactions, such as bulk data updates, system migrations, and ETL workflows, involve processing millions of rows and are vital for supporting critical operations. While TiDB excels as a distributed SQL database, handling such transactions at scale presents two significant challenges:

> - Memory limits: in releases earlier than TiDB 8.1, all transaction mutations are held in memory throughout the transaction lifecycle, which strains resources and reduces performance. For operations involving millions of rows, this could lead to excessive memory usage and, in some cases, Out of Memory (OOM) errors when resources are insufficient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Memory limits: in versions earlier than TiDB v8.1.0, all transaction mutations are held in memory throughout the transaction lifecycle, which strains resources and reduces performance. For operations involving millions of rows, this could lead to excessive memory usage and, in some cases, Out of Memory (OOM) errors when resources are insufficient.
```

> - Performance slowdowns: managing large in-memory buffers relies on red-black trees, which introduces computational overhead. As buffers grew, their operations slowed down due to the *O(N log N)* complexity inherent in these data structures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Performance slowdowns: managing large in-memory buffers relies on red-black trees, which introduces computational overhead. As buffers grow, their operations slow down due to the *O(N log N)* complexity inherent in these data structures.
```

### Solution

> These challenges highlighted a clear opportunity to improve scalability, reduce complexity, and enhance reliability. With the rise of modern data workloads, TiDB introduces the [Pipelined DML](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/system-variables#tidb_dml_type-new-in-v800) feature, designed to change how large transactions are handled and improve resource utilization and overall performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These challenges highlight a clear opportunity to improve scalability, reduce complexity, and enhance reliability. With the rise of modern data workloads, TiDB introduces the [Pipelined DML](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/system-variables#tidb_dml_type-new-in-v800) feature, designed to optimize the handling of large transactions, and improve resource utilization and overall performance.
```

- Workload: DML operations including `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, and `DELETE`.

### Test results

The execution speed increases by 2x, the maximum TiDB memory usage decreases by 50%, and the TiKV write flow becomes much smoother.

- Latency (in seconds)

    | Workload (10 GiB) | Standard DML | Pipelined DML | Improvement |
    | --- |  --- |  --- |  --- |
    | YCSB-insert-10M | 368 | 159 | 131.45% |
    | YCSB-update-10M | 255 | 131 | 94.66% |
    | YCSB-delete-10M | 136 | 42 | 223.81% |

- TiDB memory usage peak (GiB)

    | Workload (10 GiB) | Standard DML | Pipelined DML | Reduction |
    | --- |  --- |  --- |  --- |
    | YCSB-insert-10M | 25.8 | 12 | 53.49% |
    | YCSB-update-10M | 23.1 | 12.9 | 44.16% |
    | YCSB-delete-10M | 10.1 | 8.08 | 20.00% |

## TiKV scaling performance

### Challenge

Horizontal scaling is a core capability of TiKV, enabling the system to scale in or out as needed. As business demands grow and the number of tenants increases, TiDB clusters experience rapid growth in databases, tables, and data volume. Scaling out TiKV nodes quickly becomes essential to maintaining service quality.

> In some scenarios, TiDB hosts a large number of databases and tables. When these tables are small or empty, TiKV accumulates a significant number of tiny regions, especially when the number of tables grows to a large scale (such as 1 million or more). These small regions introduce a substantial maintenance burden, increase resource overhead, and reduce efficiency.

Reviewer: > TiKV accumulates a significant number of tiny regions

Does "region" here refer to ["Region"](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/tidb-cloud-glossary#region)? If so, please capitalize it as "Region".

> TiDB Region
>
> The basic unit of data in TiDB. TiKV divides the Key-Value space into a series of consecutive Key segments, and each segment is called a Region.

> In some scenarios, TiDB hosts a large number of databases and tables. When these tables are small or empty, TiKV accumulates a significant number of tiny regions, especially when the number of tables grows to a large scale (such as 1 million or more). These small regions introduce a substantial maintenance burden, increase resource overhead, and reduce efficiency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some scenarios, TiDB hosts a large number of databases and tables. When these tables are small or empty, TiKV accumulates a significant number of tiny Regions, especially when the number of tables grows to a large scale (such as 1 million or more). These small Regions introduce a substantial maintenance burden, increase resource overhead, and reduce efficiency.
```

### Solution

To address this issue, TiDB v8.5 improves the performance of merging small regions, reducing internal overhead and improving resource utilization. Additionally, TiDB v8.5 includes several other enhancements to further improve TiKV scaling performance.

### Test environment

> #### Merging small regions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Merging small Regions
```

- Cluster topology: TiDB (16 vCPU, 32 GiB) \* 1 + TiKV (16 vCPU, 32 GiB) \* 3
- Dataset: nearly 1 million small tables, with the size of each table < 2 MiB
- Workload: automatic merging of small Regions

#### Scaling out TiKV nodes

- Cluster topology: TiDB (16 vCPU, 32 GiB) \* 1 + TiKV (16 vCPU, 32 GiB) \* 4

> - Dataset: TPC-C dataset with 20k warehouses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Dataset: TPC-C dataset with 20,000 warehouses
```

- Workload: scaling out TiKV nodes from 4 to 7

### Test results

The small Region merge speed improves by about 10 times.

| Metric | Without improvement | With improvement |
| --- |  --- |  --- |
| Region merging duration (hrs) | 20 | 2 |

TiKV scaling performance improves by over 40%, and TiKV node scaling out duration gains a 30% reduction.

| Metric | Without improvement | With improvement |
| --- |  --- |  --- |
| TiKV scaling out duration (hrs) | 5 | 3.5 |

## Benchmark

> In addition to the preceding test data, you can refer to the following benchmark results for v8.5 performance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the preceding test data, you can refer to the following benchmark results for v8.5.0 performance:
```

### Test results

The query latency decreases by 50%, and the throughput increases by 100%.

| Configuration | Duration (s) | Threads | TPS | QPS | Average latency (ms) | P95 latency (ms) |
| --- |  --- |  --- |  --- |  --- |  --- |  --- |
| Disable IME | 3600 | 10 | 123.8 | 1498.3 | 80.76 | 207.82 |
| Enable IME | 3600 | 10 | 238.2 | 2881.5 | 41.99 | 78.60 |

## IO latency jitter

### Challenge

In cloud environments, transient or sustained IO latency fluctuations on cloud disks are a common challenge. These fluctuations can increase request latency, causing timeouts, errors, and disruptions to normal business operations, ultimately degrading service quality.

### Solution

TiDB v8.5.0 introduces multiple enhancements to mitigate the impact of cloud disk IO jitter on performance:

- **Leader write optimization**: allows the leader to apply committed Raft logs, reducing IO jitter's effect on write latency for the leader peer.
- **Enhanced slow-node detection**: improves the slow-node detection algorithm, enabling slow score detection by default. This triggers the evict-leader scheduler to restore performance when a slow node is identified.

> - **Unified health controller**: adds a unified health controller in TiKV and a feedback mechanism to the KV-client. The KV-client optimizes error handling and replica selection based on TiKV node health and performance.
> - **Improved replica selector**: introduces Replica Selector V2 in the KV-client, with refined state transitions that eliminate unnecessary retries and backoff operations.
> - **Additional fixes and improvements**: includes enhancements to critical components such as the region cache and KV-client health checker, while avoiding unnecessary IO operations in TiKV's store loop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Unified health controller**: adds a unified health controller in TiKV and a feedback mechanism to the KV client. The KV client optimizes error handling and replica selection based on TiKV node health and performance.
- **Improved replica selector**: introduces Replica Selector V2 in the KV client, with refined state transitions that eliminate unnecessary retries and backoff operations.
- **Additional fixes and improvements**: includes enhancements to critical components such as the region cache and KV client health checker, while avoiding unnecessary IO operations in TiKV's store loop.
```

### Test environment

- Cluster topology: TiDB (32 vCPU, 64 GiB) \* 3 + TiKV (32 vCPU, 64 GiB) \* 6
- Workload: a read/write ratio of 2:1, with simulated cloud disk IO delays or hangs on one TiKV node

### Test results

The failover time of the IO latency jitter is 30% shorter, and P99/999 latency is reduced by 70% or more.

- Test results without IO latency jitter improvement

>     | Workload | Failover time | QPS drop Rate | Maximum latency (P999) during failover | Maximum latency (P99) during failover |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    | Workload | Failover time | QPS drop rate | Maximum latency (P999) during failover | Maximum latency (P99) during failover |
```

    | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
    | IO delay 1 s lasts for 10 mins | 4 mins | 99% | 1 min | 56 s |
    | IO delay 500 ms lasts for 10 mins | 4 mins | 99% | 54 s | 7.8 s |
    | IO delay 100 ms lasts for 10 mins | Failover not achieved | 99% | 32 s | 26 s |
    | IO delay 50 ms lasts for 10 mins | Failover not achieved | 97% | 13.2 s | 6.7 s |
    | IO delay 10 ms lasts for 10 mins | Failover not achieved | 94% | 3 s | 1.45 s |
    | IO delay 5 ms lasts for 10 mins | Failover not achieved | 81% | 462 ms | 246 ms |
    | IO delay 2 ms lasts for 10 mins | Failover not achieved | 38% | 232 ms | 22.9 ms |

- Test results with IO latency jitter improvement

>     | Workload | Failover time | QPS drop Rate | Maximum latency (P999) during failover | Maximum latency (P99) during failover |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    | Workload | Failover time | QPS drop rate | Maximum latency (P999) during failover | Maximum latency (P99) during failover |
```
